Imagine that you're eating your favorite fruit, a cool crisp watermelon, a fragrant peach,
a juicy pear, or that apple in front of you at the breakfast table, refreshing distinctive,
nutritious, and then you get to the seed.
People consider that to be a waste product, and yet that seed tells us much about our creator.
It's revealed for us in 2 Corinthians 9. Please turn there and we're going to consider
together verses 8 through 15. Jehovah has a remarkable quality that we want to discuss today.
Jehovah wants us to enjoy good, delicious food today, but not only that, he wants us to enjoy it
again and again and again, and he wants all of our offspring to enjoy these good things again and
again. And if you were to plant all of the seeds in one piece of fruit, you would yield more
than you could possibly eat by yourself. By conservative estimates, one watermelon contains
200 seeds, and each seed produces a vine and each vine produces by conservative estimates
to fruits. So you would have with just the seeds of one melon of 400 more watermelons, far more
than you could eat by yourself in one season, and there's a good reason for that. Now as we look
at 2 Corinthians 9, we want to examine this passage carefully. Verse 8 begins with an important
expression that we need to understand clearly, God's undeserved kindness. So let's read verse 8,
then we'll define the term, then we'll discuss the purpose of Jehovah's undeserved kindness,
and eventually we'll get around to watermelons, and we'll come to understand what all this has
to do with our worship. 2 Corinthians 9, 8. Moreover, God is able to cause all His undeserved kindness
to abound toward you so that you are always completely self-sufficient in everything as well as
having plenty for every good work. Now first that expression undeserved kindness.
Do you have a clear understanding of that term? It's difficult to translate perfectly in English.
It's not an expression of judgment, as if to say, you are nowhere close to deserving this,
but I'm going to provide it anyway. No, that's not the concept at all. The term is describing
not the recipient, but the giver. Jehovah is ready to give. That is his disposition. You didn't
pay him first. He is disposed to share himself, his generous, good, loving, kind qualities,
not because you earned it and obligated him, but because that is who he is. He is great,
and yet he is humble and willing to give in ways grander than we could ever imagine or repay.
That is what undeserved kindness means, and you'll find the essence of that definition
in your glossary of Bible terms. Now Jehovah could just miraculously endow people with an
abundance of good things as he did in the Garden of Eden, or as he did with the manna provision,
but he does something even better. He allows his friends to participate in showing this quality
of his to the extent that we can within the limitations of our human imperfection. And he does that
because he knows it makes us happy. There's more happiness in giving than there isn't receiving
because it gives us the opportunity to show how we feel about Jehovah and about people.
Because our showing love draws us closer to Jehovah and it strengthens the bonds of our world
by brotherhood. Now notice how all of this is borne out in that verse. God is able to cause all
of his undeserved kindness to abound toward you so that you are always completely self-sufficient
and everything as well as having plenty for every good work. And verse 9 says just as it is written
at Psalm 112 verse 9, he, that is the generous person who fears Jehovah, has distributed widely.
He has given to the poor his righteousness continues forever. So are these verses suggesting
that Jehovah's undeserved kindness is so great that his servants will always have enough
for themselves and plenty to share with others as acts of righteousness.
Yes, that is exactly what these verses are teaching us. The question I need to ask myself is,
do I thoroughly believe that? Do I believe that a generous person suffers no loss?
Because Jehovah enables him to do righteous deeds because Jehovah more than makes up for it
with his undeserved kindness so that those acts of righteousness may continue forever.
Remember the evidence in every fruit and vegetable that you eat. God puts a seed in each one.
And if you were to plan all the seeds found in one fruit, you would have more than you could
possibly eat by yourself. Verses 10 and 11 use this exact illustration. Now the one who abundantly
supplies seed to the sower and bread for eating will supply and multiply the seed for you to so
and will increase the harvest of your righteousness. In everything you are being enriched for
every sort of generosity which produces through us an expression of thanks to God.
Beautiful verses. So why does Jehovah provide so bountifully? So that
the words of verse 8, you and I, can be generous. Clearly, generosity is an act of faith
and love. But why can it be said that generosity is also an expression of worship? Well,
look at how verse 11 continues. Generosity produces through us an expression of thanks to God.
Think of it. Your generosity causes prayer, which is worship. And not only that,
verse 12 continues, because the ministry of this public service is not only to provide
well for the needs of the holy ones, but also to be rich in many expressions of thanks to God.
At the annual meeting, we learned about the almost 50 million dollars that our organization just
spent on disaster relief during the last two service years. And we saw before and after
photos of the homes of some of our brothers. And we were pleased to note that our brothers
are well cared for. And verse 12 calls that work a ministry. It is sacred service. And as such,
it results in many expressions of thanks to Jehovah. And verse 13 continues,
through the proof that this relief ministry gives, they glorify God because you are submissive
to the good news about the Christ. Yes, you are real Christians. You live what you believe
as you publicly declared. And because you are generous in your contribution to them and to all.
And with supplication for you, they express affection for you because of the surpassing undeserved
kindness of God upon you. Thanks be to God for his indescribable free gift. That is to say,
his undeserved kindness, his disposition to be generous beyond our imagination or ability
to repay. That is the gift that enables us to keep giving. Each day, millions of prayers of
gratitude ascend to Jehovah for your generosity. That strengthens the bonds of our brotherhood.
Now how were you able to be generous? Where did you get the time, the energy, the resources,
the idea, the motivation, the love, the opportunity to give of yourself in this way.
Jehovah gave us these things through his undeserved kindness. And when you support Kingdom work,
you help those in need. And Jehovah is worshiped as the words of our days text say,
1 Chronicles 29, 14, everything is from Jehovah. And we have given to him what comes from his own hand.
You have drawn the right conclusion from Jehovah's undeserved kindness, from his disposition to give
freely. You have trusted in his promise. You have imitated his goodness. You are participating
in his happiness. This is how Jehovah's organization functions. May Jehovah continue to bless you
richly for your participation in that.